July 2019.
# Arc4u 4.6.0.12.

This .Net version of Arc4u fix an issue with the principal created via OAuth 2.0 (PrincipalFactory) and old xaml Workflows. There is also a new feature for the BasicAuthentication where
a default domain can be added.

## Fix.

When a job or a command/event handler is called, we create a principal based on an encrypted version of a basic authentication string.
The following code does this:

```csharp
		    try
            {
                var messages = new Arc4u.ServiceModel.Messages();

                // Create a principal based on the service account.

                PrincipalFactory.SetPrincipal(await PrincipalFactory.CreatePrincipal("Service", messages));

                messages.LogAndThrowIfNecessary();
            }
            catch (Exception ex)
            {
                Logger.Exception(ex);
            }
```

The create principal methods created a principal with no Sid. As the Sid is used to store the claims during a Wcf/Saml2.0 service, there is an
exception thrown saying no token exists. Now the principal contains the Sid (only the profile contained it) which fixes the token cache issue of the Saml2.0 token.


## New freature.

In OAuth when we create a service user based on a basic authentication string (encrypted or not), we have to add a domain. 

The format supported are (with arc4u.net as a domain example):
	
-  user@arc4u.net
-  user\\\\arcu

When we configure IIS to manage the user authentication, a default domain is configured and the user can enter only his user name without any reference to the domain.
In this scenario, the token for the user cannot be retrieve because no domain is provided to ADFS.

To support this scenario, I have added the capability to provide a BasicAuthenticationContextOption during the declaration of the BasicAuthenticationContext.

The code becomes:

```csharp
	app.UseBasicAuthenticationContext(new BasicAuthenticationContextOption 
	{
		settings = basicSettings,
		DefaultUpn = "@arc4u.net"
	});
```

 
