May 2019.
# Arc4u 4.6.0.9.

This .Net version of Arc4u is dedicated for backend purposes and adds integration with NServiceBus and RabbitMQ for messaging purpose based on events and commands.

Packages:

- _`Arc4u.4.6.0.9.nupkg.`_
- Arc4u.Caching.Database.4.6.0.9.nupkg.
- Arc4u.Diagnostics.ServiceBus.4.6.0.9.nupkg.
- _`Arc4u.NServiceBus.4.6.0.9.nupkg.`_
- _`Arc4u.NServiceBus.RabbitMQ.4.6.0.9.nupkg.`_
- _`Arc4u.OAuth.4.6.0.9.nupkg.`_
- Arc4u.ServiceModel.4.6.0.9.nupkg.
- Arc4u.WsFederation.4.6.0.9.nupkg.

The packages in italic are impacted by this new release. The others are unchanged.

---
## Changes

### 1) Scope< T >.
Since .Net 4.6.1, [AsyncLocal](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.threading.asynclocal-1) exists and removes the complexity linked to the CallContext logic.

It is also a feature now integrated, supported by the .Net framework but also in .Net Standard!

So Scope<T> and Scope<T1, T2> is now using AsyncLocal internally. An error on CultureScope is fixed (Scope nesting was not working).

The other scopes (TransactionScope, ConnectionScope, etc...) are untouched but used the Scope<T> class.

### 2) OAuth

The way to create a principal based on a service account has changed in Arc4u.OAuth. The previous one doesn't keep your principal cross all part of the code you call (unit of work). The new implementation fix this issue.

So in Hangfire or NServiceBus, on the entry point you will add this code to create a principal and build a token so you can call another services based on it.

```csharp

            try
            {
                //await CreatePrincipal();
                Messages messages = new Messages();
                // Create a principal based on the service account.
                principalFactory.SetPrincipal(await principalFactory.CreatePrincipal("Service", messages));

                messages.LogAndThrowIfNecessary();
            }
            catch (Exception ex)
            {
                Logger.Exception(ex);
            }
```

The SetPrincipal method is more or less the big changes and this will put on the current thread the new principal created.


## NServiceBus

This new version of Arc4u now introduces the integration of [NServiceBus](https://particular.net/nservicebus) to embrace messaging but more important: event and command pattern.

The Arc4u.NServiceBus is the core implementation and the RabbitMQ is there to implement a Routing topology explicitly linked to RabbitMQ.

What brings Arc4u.NServicebus?

> 1. Diagnostics: route logging information to the Arc4u.Logger, so you see in one central point all the information of your application.
> 2. Naming convention pattern to send and receive messages (avoid dependency of NServiceBus in the message classes).
> 3. Unit of work pattern to send messages when the job is done to avoid inconsistency due to any code exceptions. 

### 1. Diagnostics

```csharp
            LogManager.Use<Arc4uLogger>();
```

And all the messages sent from NServicebus will be redirected to the Arc4u logging pipeline and the same logging level are used: Warning, Information, Debug, etc...

### 2. Naming message pattern

With NServiceBus, you can make the distinction between a command or an event by using the ICommand and IEvent interfaces. The problem with this approach is the strong dependency to NServicebus.

Why this is a problem?

When you will work and communicate to your small services architecture, you will not be able to maintain consistency between the version of NServiceBus cross your services. So you need to decouple this. This is the reason why you can define a naming convention pattern.

In NServiceBus, sending a command or an event is not done in the same way. This is the reason why it's important to be able to categorize a message as an event or a command.

The code to do this will look like that:

```csharp
           MessagesToPublish.CommandsNamingConvention = (type) =>
            {
                return type.Namespace.StartsWith("SBGuid.Messages.Commands", StringComparison.InvariantCultureIgnoreCase);
            };

            MessagesToPublish.EventsNamingConvention = (type) =>
            {
                return type.Namespace.StartsWith("SBGuid.Messages.Events", StringComparison.InvariantCultureIgnoreCase);
            };
```

> _Important._</br>
> In your services you will handle messages coming from another ones. So you will have more than one namespace defined to sort events and commands.

### 3. Unit of work

The common scenario in a SOA with a small services architecture is the handle of a message (event or command) and the send of messages generated during the process of the incoming message.

But what is surely very important is that you don't send those messages before you are sure all your business needs are done (without any exceptions).

This is the reason why Arc4u introduces the unit of work pattern. In your business layer code you will take decision to send a message but you will not be able to say: ok send this but only when all is ok?

In your code you will only do this:

First you have in your interface project an handler deriving from Arc4u which derives from NServiceBus implementation.

```csharp
class CreateCommandHandler : HandleMessageBase<CreateOrder>
{
    ...
    public override async Task Handle(CreateOrder message)
        {
            try
            {
                //await CreatePrincipal();
                Messages messages = new Messages();
                // Create a principal based on the service account.
                principalFactory.SetPrincipal(await principalFactory.CreatePrincipal("Service", messages));

                messages.LogAndThrowIfNecessary();
            }
            catch (Exception ex)
            {
                Logger.Exception(ex);
            }



            await orderBl.HandleCreateOrder(message);
        }
}
```

Anywhere in your business logic code

```csharp
MessagesToPublish.Add(new OrderCreated { OrderId = order.Id });
```

The first part of the handler is the creation of a principal based on the service account (See change in OAuth). After business logic will be processed.

At any time and anywhere in the code, you can ask to send a message and those messages will be only send at the end of the handler if no exceptions are thrown.

So you are save that your messages will not trigger other processes in case of failure.

---

Other base classes exist to define a sender only or a receive and send of messages based on a queue.

The way to use this is explained in this [guidance](..\Guidance\Guidance2017_1_15.md).